Viblio File Upload Protocol
---------------------------

The Viblio file upload protocol is based on the "tus" protocol, described
in its original form here: http://tus.io/protocols/resumable-upload.html.
We have made various modifications to better suit our environment and 
requirements.

The server side of the protocol is implemented with NodeJS in the form
of a server called "brewtus".  That code started with 
https://github.com/vayam/brewtus and has been modified in ways described
in this document.

We have a command line, reference implementation of a client that can upload
files to brewtus called "tuspy", which started out as 
https://github.com/vayam/tuspy and has been modified to match our changes
to brewtus.

High Level Flow
---------------

A client initiates an upload by doing a POST to /files, with some meta data
in the headers of the request and more meta data in the post body.  The
server returns a "fileId" which must be used in subsequent operations.

The client then does a series of PATCH requests to /files/fileId with a file
offset and a length specified in the header, and the file data in the body.
The length is arbitrary, and indeed offset can be zero and length equal to
the total size in bytes of the file, and the entire file transmitted in the
body of a single PATCH.  In practice however, one would choose a chunk size
that takes network utilization into account, or allows one to transfer multiple
files at the same time.

The client can optionally make a HEAD request to /files/fileId to get the
server's notion of the current offset of the file.  If such a HEAD request
returns an offset equal to the length of the file transmmitted, then you
know you are done.

The client can make a DELETE request to /files/fileId to delete a file in
progress.  This can and should be used in response to a user cancelling
an upload in progress.

Resumability
------------

The TUS protocol is designed to be resumable.  If a client retains sufficient 
state such that it can be rebooted and know that uploads were in progress,
it can query the server with HEAD requests to determine where to resume sending
data from a particular file.  The server will retain its idea of where it is
in a file indefinitey, so long as its local file system remains intact.

The server may become unavailable for whatever reason.  The client can 
continue to periodically ping the server until connectivity resumes, and
can query the server with HEAD requests to determine where to pick up.  Such
a HEAD request might return a 404 response, in which case a file may need to
be retransmitted from the beginning.

Cookies
-------

One thing we have added to the TUS protocol are session cookies to facilitate
load balancing and scaling of multiple brewtus servers behind a single URL.
Because brewtus writes file chunks into a local file system, any file upload
must start and complete on the same brewtus instance.  The fileId might have
been used to identify unqiue sessions, however our load balancing solution
requires the use of cookies.  

On the initial POST to /files, the client should not send any cookies.  This
actually tells the load balancer that this is the start of a new session.
The response from the server will include Set-Cookie header(s) that the
client should retain, associated with the fileId that also comes back.  Then
on every subsequent PATCH, HEAD or DELETE for a particular fileId, the client
must include the Cookie header with the cookies received for that fileId in
the original POST.  

For a client to be able to resume uploading files after a reboot, the client
must persistantly retain the (filename - fileId - cookies) relation across
reboots (or sleeps, hibernation, etc).

HTTP/HTTPS
----------

The brewtus server may be behind HTTP or HTTPS.  On development machines, the
HTTPS certs may be self signed, and the client should still operate.  Cookies
will have the Secure flag set when being returned from HTTPS.

For testability, the brewtus server endpoint should be changable by the
development team, and may point to HTTP or HTTPS and SSL certs may or may
not be strictly valid (self signed or mismatching domains).

AUTHENTICATION
--------------

While not stricly part of the TUS protocol, nor part of the client <=> brewtus
communication path, a client in the Viblio environment must authenticate
against another server in order to obtain a user UUID which is required as
part of the meta data sent on a new file upload.  The brewtus server needs
this user UUID in order to associate an uploaded file with a user account.

User management, including authentication and new account creation is 
covered in another document.  For the initial POST to initial a file 
upload, you will need the authenticated user's "uuid".

Detailed Request/Response Descriptions
--------------------------------------

POST
----

To begin a file upload, the client will send a POST request to /files.  First
prepare the meta data you will send.  The meta data should be formatted as
a JSON string, and must include at a minimum:

{ 
  uuid: authenticated-user-uuid,
  file: { 
    Path: original-file-path-on-client-filesystem
  }
}

NOTE: 'Path' is capitalized!

The tuspy client generates a lot more metadata.  It runs ffmpeg and captures
meta data like this:

  ffprobe -v quiet -print_format json=c=1 -show_format -show_streams FILENAME

and then adds the 'uuid' and 'file' entries to the JSON returned by
ffprobe.  This meta data is saved into the database on the server side.

Then you can issue the POST request to /files.  The header 'Final-Length'
must be present and set to the uploaded file's total length in bytes.  The
body of the POST should be the meta data in JSON format.  'Content-Length'
should be set to the size in bytes of the meta data.  The 'Content-Type'
for this request (and all other requests) should be set to 
"application/offset+octet-stream".

A successful POST will return a 200, and a header called 'Location' that
is set to the endpoint you should use for subsequent PATCH, HEAD and DELETE
requests.  If your POST was to:

  https://uploader.viblio.com/files

then Location will look something like:

  https://uploader.viblio.com/files/6d7e4260-463c-11e3-9f1e-5b82aae08307

NOTE:  The brewtus server may be running in HTTP mode behind a HTTPS proxy,
in which case Location might start with http:// even though you POSTed to
https://.  IT MAY BE ADVISABLE to parse Location to obtain the fileId portion
and tack that onto your programmed brewtus endpoint.

The POST will also return a Set-Cookie header if brewtus is running behind
a load balancer.  The client should look for a Set-Cookie header and if
present, parse the cookies found in that header and keep them around,
associated with the fileId (or Location) for this file.  You will need to
return these cookies in a Cookie header on subsequent PATCH, HEAD and
DELETE requests.

PATCH
-----

The PATCH request is used to send chunks of bytes to the brewtus server
to actually upload the file.  It looks like:

PATCH /files/6d7e4260-463c-11e3-9f1e-5b82aae08307
Content-Type: application/offset+octet-stream
Cookie: (cookies)
Content-Length: 204800
Offset: 409600


(bytes)

The Offset header is the offset into the file that Content-Length bytes
should be written.  The actual bytes are in the body of the PATCH request.
The Cookie header should be set to the cookies you received from the original
POST for this fileId.

HEAD
----

A HEAD request can be made to ask the server what its current offset is for
a particular fileId:

HEAD /files/6d7e4260-463c-11e3-9f1e-5b82aae08307
Content-Type: application/offset+octet-stream
Cookie: (cookies)

It will return the current offset in a Offset header.

DELETE
------

A DELETE request can be made to cancel an upload, telling the server to
delete any persistent information about the file, and the file itself:

DELETE /files/6d7e4260-463c-11e3-9f1e-5b82aae08307
Content-Type: application/offset+octet-stream

